## Translation Lookaside Buffer (TLB) in Paging

In Operating System (Memory Management Technique : Paging), for each process page table will be created, which will contain Page Table Entry (PTE). This PTE will contain information like frame number (The address of main memory where we want to refer), and some other useful bits (e.g., valid/invalid bit, dirty bit, protection bit etc). This page table entry (PTE) will tell where in the main memory the actual page is residing. 

Now the question is where to place the page table, such that overall access time (or reference time) will be less. 

The problem initially was to fast access the main memory content based on address generated by CPU (i.e logical/virtual address). Initially, some people thought of using registers to store page table, as they are high-speed memory so access time will be less. 

The idea used here is, place the page table entries in registers, for each request generated from CPU (virtual address), it will be matched to the appropriate page number of the page table, which will now tell where in the main memory that corresponding page resides. Everything seems right here, but the problem is register size is small (in practical, it can accommodate maximum of 0.5k to 1k page table entries) and process size may be big hence the required page table will also be big (lets say this page table contains 1M entries), so registers may not hold all the PTE’s of Page table. So this is not a practical approach. 

To overcome this size issue, the entire page table was kept in main memory. but the problem here is two main memory references are required: 
